Welcome back to our advanced
QuickTime programming techniques topic.
So advanced, we brought our own XServe,
which all our demos will not
be running on the XServe,
in fact.
What we're going to be talking
about today is topics that a lot
of people find pretty important.
One is thread safety and
multi-threading in QuickTime.
A second topic we're going to cover
is some integration we've done in
QuickTime 6.4 and Panther for ColorSync.
And lastly,
we'll be talking about the complicated
topic of Audio-Video Startup Sync.
And just an overview of some of the
technology frameworks we'll cover today.
QuickTime, obviously, ColorSync, Quartz,
Quartz 2D, and Core Services for some
of our multi-threading APIs.
And now I'd like to introduce Sam Bushell
to come and talk about multi-threading.
Thanks, Tim.
Good afternoon.
I think I could get in trouble if
I put my water bottle on that thing.
QuickTime's heritage
on Mac OS versions 6,
7, 8,
and 9 meant that many of its APIs were
designed to be run from a single thread.
Mac OS X brings us not
only multiprocessing,
the ability to do multiple things
in multiple applications at once,
but also it removes some of
the traditional limitations on
what we could do with multiple
threads within an application.
I'm going to talk about some of the work
we've been doing inside QuickTime to
allow you to use multi-threading with the
QuickTime APIs to make your application
more responsive and more powerful.
First, let's talk about the basic
problem with single-threaded APIs.
If everything were instantaneous,
no one would care.
It would be OK if everything
had to run from the same thread.
But many common operations are slow.
And it's a bad user experience
when these slow operations delay
application responsiveness.
It's inconvenient to users when they
can't export two movies at once,
or export a movie and play
a movie at the same time.
So from our perspective,
the urgent need is to allow
developers to move these slow jobs
to background threads so they can
free up the main thread to provide
a responsive user interface.
In Panther,
the particular operations we have in
mind are still image import and export,
opening movies, rendering movies,
recompressing movies, exporting movies.
But in Panther,
we are not changing the way
that movies are played back.
Playback is already implemented in a way
that avoids blocking the user interface.
It's been that way since QuickTime 1.0.
It's these other operations
that have become UI hogs.
We want to make these things safe
to perform on background threads.
So in Panther,
the model we're aiming for is to
allow independent threads to work on
disjoint sets of QuickTime objects.
This is the most important thing I want
you to take away from my session today,
disjointness.
If one thread has its
set of QuickTime objects,
and another thread has its
own set of QuickTime objects,
and never the twain shall meet,
everything's going to be fine.
But we're not making it safe
for two threads to access the
same object simultaneously.
If two threads need to
manipulate the same object,
then those threads need to
perform some kind of negotiation
or locking around this.
Now this is no different from any
unprotected data structure you
might implement in your own code.
You need to have some kind of
thread protection before you
allow simultaneous access.
The exception to the disjointness
rule arrives with the file system.
The file system has always been designed
to allow multiple readers of a file.
And so,
in order to understand this slide,
we need to make the
distinction between a movie,
which is a data structure in memory,
with a capital M,
and a movie file which sits
out on a disk somewhere.
It may or may not be a QuickTime movie,
but maybe of some other format
that's been imported and is
viewed as a QuickTime movie.
It's okay for two threads to each
have their own movie data structure
that points to the same movie file.
And it's okay for them to be displaying
or rendering different parts of that
movie at the same time and moving around.
It may or may not be okay for one of
those threads to be modifying that file,
obviously,
but that should come as no surprise.
So let me repeat this really
important point again.
Don't let two threads work on the
same QuickTime object at once.
It's you as the developer who
has responsibility for making
sure that this is the case.
It's also the developer's responsibility
to avoid going and creating a dialog
or a window in a background thread.
If you go and look in the headers,
you'll see that the Human Interface
Toolbox is not thread-safe.
It's the main run loop
that receives events.
Whether in Carbon or Cocoa,
UI needs to basically
stay in the main thread.
One more restriction,
this stuff is only going to be
safe to do from threads in Panther.
Even if you install a spanking new
version of QuickTime on Jaguar,
you're still not going to get
these thread safety improvements.
Why not?
Because there's a lot of plumbing
underneath QuickTime that we rely on,
a lot of APIs and core services
that have been improved in
order to enable this stuff,
and that stuff is only
available in Panther.
So, now that I'm done telling you
about all these restrictions,
it's over to Tim to show
you how great it is,
because it is substantially
nice to be able to run this
stuff from multiple threads.
Great, thank you.
So, I have three applications I'm
going to show you demos of,
and they're going to be available
on the Apple Developer Connection
website under the QuickTime,
etc., etc.
WWDC will put up some URLs at the end.
So,
what we did was we wanted to be able to
make some clear applications that showed
not only the code that you need to do
to make your applications thread-safe,
but also demonstrate visually
so that people could understand
exactly what we're trying to enable.
The first application, Thread Tester Pro,
is basically trying to emulate
what Finder or iPhoto would be
doing in the preview mode of
viewing graphics-imported images,
and that's what this demo is showing.
So,
what I've done is I've opened a window,
and I'm going to open a second
window of this application.
And before I go on,
I'm going to set each window to use the
main thread as opposed to the P thread.
So, right now, there's one thread in this
application that serves both windows.
And then I'm going to select
some images to preview.
So, I'm going to pick some smaller images
that I took when I was on vacation
in Southeast Asia far too long ago.
And I'm going to select some
larger images in this other one.
And while that one's loading,
you can see I can basically load up
these images and it's fairly responsive.
But when I tell it to auto-run,
which is basically going
through every image,
and I'll tell this one to auto-run,
now these large images are
what effectively are doing,
they're blocking the other thread from
processing that image because the images
in the front window are much larger,
they take longer to decode.
And not only is that going on,
but you can see that the
UI is pretty non-responsive.
I can't really click.
It's kind of like waiting
for things to get done.
So let me stop that.
[Transcript missing]
So that is the first
demo I wanted to show.
That's graphics importers using the
same application doing two sets of
images on two different threads.
So the second demo I'm showing
is that we've done the same
work for graphics exporters.
One thing that you'll see here
is that in the application,
there's a menu that says only
use thread-safe components.
So we're able to detect
through some techniques.
Sam will talk about which components
are thread-safe in the OS.
And here I'm going to limit
it to the ones that are.
And again,
I'm going to switch to the main thread
and select the folder Export Files.
So now it's loaded in a bunch of images,
and I'm going to do the same auto-run.
It's created a folder.
It's basically spewing these
all out in a different format.
And while this is going on,
you can see it's responsive
because the images are small,
but it's not exactly superb.
So let me stop that and
get rid of that guy.
So back to the main thread,
I'm going to open another window and
again select the same export folder.
and switch this window to use a Pthread.
So now both windows are using Pthreads,
and let me just get them both going.
And again, now we have two applications
bringing the images and exporting
them to different formats.
What it's basically doing is
it's exporting them to all the
formats that are shown here.
So this is running,
and we see that there's going
to be two folders created here.
And let me just stop that
and stop the other one.
and you can see what's done here.
Just a couple of these images were
loaded up in all the different formats.
So once again,
you can think of applications
like iPhoto and other applications
which are exporting images.
They can now do these in the background.
So that's pretty much the story
for importing and exporting.
And where did my window go?
So my last demo is about movies.
So with movies,
you kind of have the same idea.
You want to be able to do
things in the background.
multiple operations in your
application when you're doing
things like exporting movies.
So again, I have an application
called Threads Export Movie.
And I can select whether I want to
use the main thread or P thread.
In this case, I'm selecting a movie
using the main thread.
And here's the movie.
and it's Kevin Mark's son once again.
And now I'm gonna export and...
Oh, I did that earlier today, no worries.
So let me pick the settings.
I'm gonna pick CinePack, nice and fast.
It's thread safe.
So now I'm exporting
this movie to CinePack,
and you can see,
It's taking quite some time,
and while it's doing this thing,
I can't do anything with the application.
Not very, very good user experience.
So let's just wait for this to be up.
So what we're going to then do is
we're going to switch this and be
able to do it on background thread.
And when you're doing that,
the application will be responsive.
So let's switch this
guy to be on a P thread.
And I'm going to open a new window.
This time I'm going to select
a long version of Andrew.
And again, it's using a P thread.
So let's export this guy.
Test.move.
Yes, replace that.
And CinePack, the settings are good,
so I'm going to start exporting that.
While I'm doing that,
I'm going to go back so it's responsive,
and I'm going to go and export
test2.move and replace that one.
And again,
I'm going to use CinePack so you can
see that I'm able to do that export.
And just for fun,
I'm going to open a new window,
select Andrew, and play this.
And just so you can see what's going on,
we're able to actually export two
different movies and play one of
the same movies at the same time.
So basically, multi-threaded.
Rendering and multi-threaded.
Transcoding in QuickTime 6.4.
Thank you.
Thank you, guys.
Thanks a lot.
Perfect.
Thank you, Tim.
So Tim gets to show
you all the good news.
I get to tell you about the bad news.
What's the bad news?
Bad news is some components.
are not thread safe.
Even if we could make every
component that we ship on
QuickTime in Panther thread safe,
QuickTime is an extensible system.
And users can install
third party components.
And they might be last year's components.
They may not be thread safe.
We're going to have to cope with this
fact that we have thread-safe code
and thread-unsafe code in the system.
When you do a high-level
operation in QuickTime,
maybe like opening a movie
and starting to display it,
or converting an image from
one file format to another,
that can involve maybe a
dozen lower-level components.
And often,
you don't know which components
you're going to use until
you actually try and do it.
So that means that some media files
and some conversions cannot be safely
performed from background threads.
And your application is going to have to
cope with finding that out dynamically.
Now,
a bad way for your application to find
out dynamically would be for it to
crash at random on users' machines.
A better way is for it to
get some kind of message.
So the new rule is for
applications who create threads,
who call QuickTime,
is you have to call this API to say,
from this thread,
please don't let me open any
non-thread-safe components.
It's a component manager call.
It's in core services,
hence the CS prefix.
And it's in Panther.
If the component manager is
about to open a component,
and it notices the component
is not thread safe,
then it will return-- it
won't open the component,
because even the open call
might do things that are unsafe.
And instead,
it will return this error code.
And that error code is likely to
propagate back through other APIs to you.
And if you receive that error from--
Any API in QuickTime,
then you need to cope with that and
shift the work over to the main thread.
In the Panther seed,
there's a mixture of thread-safe
and non-thread-safe components.
And you can see some
of those on this chart.
Others you'll have to
work out for yourself.
You can test that by checking the
component thread safety flag just with
Find Mix Component or Get Component Info.
It's a flag defined in the
Component Manager header file.
So the most important still
image formats are the ones we've
gone and made thread-safe first.
Magpaint is not.
Not because we hate MacPaint,
it brings a smile to all of our faces.
The real reason is so that you have
some well-defined test cases for
exercising the migration feature.
You should use the components
that are thread-safe to exercise
code like Tim demonstrated,
but you should use the components that
are on the right to exercise your code
so as to make sure that it's safe,
even if you encounter media
that's supported by components
that aren't thread-safe.
In some situations,
you're going to want to move
a QuickTime object from one
thread to another thread.
Now, with graphics importers
and graphics exporters,
you can manage that with locking
that you perform on your own.
Just make sure that it's only being
called from one thread at a time.
But movies are kind of special
because of the way that they work.
Movies need to know which thread
they belong to at any given time.
And so there's a pair of APIs that you
call to detach a movie from one thread
and then to attach it to another thread.
A bunch of QuickTime APIs let
you install callback routines.
These fall into several categories.
There are some that have always
been called back from funny threads.
That hasn't changed.
But there are other ones that,
in general, get called back from whatever
thread is doing the work.
Now, in the past,
that was always the main thread.
But now you might move that
work to another thread.
And if you do,
you need to take care with your
callbacks and rethink whether
they're actually thread-safe as well.
In particular, you should take care with
your progress callbacks.
Don't just call setControlValue
to adjust a progress slider,
because that could cause the
progress slider to be redrawn.
And like I said earlier,
header files say that the
Control Manager and the Dialog
Manager are not thread-safe.
And that could cause-- simply
calling setControlValue,
although we think about it,
it's just setting a value,
it actually would cause quite a lot of
code to be run in order to draw that.
It may not always be immediately
obvious that the code that you're
running is not thread-safe.
Thread-safety bugs can be nastily
tricky and hard to reproduce,
and it's better to be safer than sorry.
If you're a developer who
writes QuickTime components,
good for you.
Please make the next version
of your component thread safe.
And when you do that,
you should set the thread
safety flag on your component.
It's just a component
flag in the global space.
What kind of things do you need to do in
your component to make it thread safe?
And what kind of things do you
need to do in your application
to make sure you're thread safe?
Well, a bunch of that plumbing that
I talked about beneath QuickTime,
here are some good examples.
It's now safe to create G worlds and
draw in them from preemptive threads.
It's now safe to open and close
components from background threads.
It's safe to resolve aliases.
It's safe to create and
manipulate handles from threads.
In order to make that work safely,
we made what was previously a global
error variable for the memory manager,
a mem error.
We made that from a global variable
into a per-thread variable.
So the error you get back,
the error code you get back from
an API call on one thread won't
interfere with the API call.
you make on another thread.
You may have read advice saying,
"Stop using handles,
use malloc instead." There's a
little bit of confusion about that.
If you're using New Handle to
allocate private data structures
inside your application,
then it's a good idea to examine
those and see if you can switch them
over to use malloc or caloc instead.
If they never change size,
that might be the right thing to do.
Because malloc is faster on Mac OS X.
The handle implementation is built
on top of it and it has to maintain
some extra information that isn't
necessary for malloc and caloc.
It has to maintain the
master pointer blocks,
for example.
However,
we use handles in QuickTime and in
the Alias Manager and so forth as
a part of our dialogue of our API.
We have over 400 APIs that pass
handles around in QuickTime,
and they're not going away.
So your use of handles,
if you're using it for those purposes,
is obviously the right thing to do.
There are some other managers and
APIs that won't be becoming thread-safe.
The Resource Manager APIs involve a
global state called the resource chain.
It's a list of open resource files.
and effectively it's an implicit
parameter passed to most of
the resource manager APIs.
And as such, it's not thread safe.
However, the one-shot component manager
calls that get component resources,
such as get component resource,
get component public resource,
get component public resource list,
these guys are thread safe.
So, for example, in your component,
if you,
a common thing that happens in image
decompressor components is that they
need to get the CDCI resource to
answer the question in get codec info,
fill in this codec info slab.
And a way that often this has been done
is by calling open a resource file,
get resource, and close a resource file.
Because those APIs manipulate
the resource chain,
they're not safe to do.
Instead, you can use the one-shot call,
getComponentResource,
and that is actually safe,
and that's what we recommend you
do inside your getCodicInfo call.
There are other examples of
this in other component types.
Another common practice in
components has been to have some
shared global state that's shared
between component instances.
and generally people would use
the component refcon as a way
of storing where this state was.
Now, when all components were used
on the same thread and memory
was scarce on your Macintosh LC,
it was a good idea because
you wanted to save memory.
However, if you want your component to be
used by multiple threads at once,
it's now a bad idea and it's
time to upgrade that code.
Now, if you really need to share dynamic
state between components and
those component instances might be
[Transcript missing]
On the other hand, if you're using shared
globals for constant tables,
and maybe allocating them once and
then hanging onto them later on,
then the best thing you can
do is to take those tables,
generate some source code
that builds those tables,
label it as const,
and just build it and put
it in your executable.
This might seem a little bit
eager or a little bit weird,
but it is actually a better thing
to do for a number of reasons.
If your data is constant
and you tell a compiler,
here's a big constant array,
then instead of putting it in a place
in private memory to one application,
it'll put it in the read-only
section of the executable,
which for Unix-y reasons
is called the text segment.
I don't really understand that history.
But this is the same place
where your executable code is.
And the nice thing about that
code is that it can be shared
between multiple applications.
So as well as sharing these tables
between multiple instances of a
component inside one application,
these are shared between
multiple instances of multiple
components across applications.
That stuff needs only to be
resident in physical memory once.
And even better,
if that memory needs to be
pushed out for paging reasons,
it doesn't need to be
written back to the disk.
It doesn't need to take up space in
swap files because it's read-only.
And so the kernel knows that it can
bring it back any time it wants just by
mapping it back from the read-only file.
So that's the best thing to do in
cleaning up your code in that area.
So to summarize the thread
safety part of this talk,
we're giving you the opportunity
to make your applications more
responsive and more powerful by
doing work in background threads.
In return, your part of the bargain is
that you need to structure your
code so that it will cope with
legacy non-threadsafe components.
Component developers,
please make your components
threadsafe so that the application
developers can take advantage of them.
And this is a Panther-only feature.
Now, there's one thing we haven't
mentioned on the slide,
which is that we have a seed.
We have the opportunity
to seed some of you.
And we have set up an address that you
can send mail to to request involvement,
which is qtthreadseed at apple.com.
That email address is going to
be around just for next week.
So you should send email
to us in the next week.
I have some reminder cards.
You should come up to
me after the session,
and I'll give you a reminder card.
And then you can take it back and arrange
to tell us what you're going to do.
And we can see if we can seed you.
So now I'd like to
hand things over to me.
So if you've been asleep through the
multi-threading part of the talk,
it's time to wake up again.
We're going to talk about QuickTime's
integration with ColorSync.
And I want to begin this
by taking a sip of water.
So let's start with a jargon update.
The QuickTime has APIs for
drawing still image files.
And we have APIs for
writing still image files.
We talked about those earlier.
They're graphics importers
and graphics exporters.
Colorsync provides services for
matching colors between profiles.
If you haven't heard of these terms,
A profile describes how pixel
values relate to the colors we see.
It's a mathematical model
of this relationship.
and different devices like cameras,
printers, scanners, and monitors.
They each have different profiles.
It turns out that the relationship
between a pixel value stored in some
kind of buffer and the color you end up
seeing is going to be different for each
of these different kinds of devices and
often for different individual devices.
Color matching,
the big thing that ColorSync provides,
color matching is translating
pixel values to compensate for
the differences between profiles
so that you see the same color.
So many kinds of still image
files have different ways of
embedding Colossing profiles.
And part of the Graphics Importer
and Graphics Exporter APIs since
QuickTime 4.0 has been affordances
to read these profiles and to
write these profiles in new files.
That was pretty much all we provided.
To draw an image with color matching,
you had to write some extra code.
And to preserve a profile when converting
between one image format and another,
you had to write a
little bit of extra code.
It wasn't much.
But because ColorSync has often
been viewed as a pro feature,
applications that didn't view
themselves as pro imaging applications
often didn't spend that effort.
And this meant that
the results are patchy.
And even non-pro users are beginning
to notice this and start to get
a little bit tetchy about the
fact that this picture they've got
doesn't look the same everywhere.
Here's what you had to do in order
to draw an image using a graphics
importer with color matching.
You'd get a graphics
importer for the file.
Draw it into an off-screen
GWorld or buffer.
You'd get the ColorSync profile by
making the call on the graphics importer.
And then you'd choose
some destination profile,
often a generic RGB profile.
Then you'd create a ColorWorld,
which is a ColorSync API.
And then you would match,
which means actually
performing the translation.
You'd match from the GWorld to another
GWorld and then copy that to a window.
This is a little bit more work,
and if you really cared,
you probably did it,
but it was still some work.
If you wanted to preserve a profile,
that wasn't quite such a big deal.
You had to get it from the importer
and set it on the exporter.
And, you know, in QuickTime 4.0,
this didn't seem like such a big
deal for people to have to do.
But if you didn't do it,
then you lost some kind
of important information.
And people who are relying on
that as part of their process,
or people who just were messing
around with some images,
could become a little bit
unhappy if they lost that.
So here's what we're doing in Panther.
Graphics importers will now draw
using color matching by default.
And we'll use the CMYK to RGB conversion
that Colorsync provides by default,
because it looks better
than what we were doing,
which was somewhat naive.
Furthermore,
when you convert image formats
using graphics exporters,
we will preserve the profile.
We can only do this if you're plugging
in a graphics importer directly into a
graphics exporter or using some other
mechanism that lets us automatically
detect the profile and push it through.
If you draw into some off-screen
GWorld and then export out
of that off-screen GWorld,
the GWorld is not tagged.
Other kinds of things like CG images and
bitmap context and core graphics are,
but the QuickDraw equivalents are not.
We can help when we can help.
Otherwise, you may have to do some
work still yourself.
But this is what you do now in order
to draw an image using color matching.
You just draw,
and we will draw to generic RGB if you
haven't told us to do anything else.
We'll go and call ColorSync,
and I might as well show you.
So let's go to demo one.
Wow.
The export's finished.
So all of the sample code that Tim showed
you earlier and the sample code that
I'm showing you now is available.
But because it requires the Panther APIs,
you have to go to the
Apple Developer Connection
site and log in.
So you go to connect.apple.com, log in.
And then if you look under
Download Software and then the
name of the developers conference,
then you'll find a bunch of stuff.
There's more stuff each day.
And here I'm going to show you
an application that you could be
playing with if you'd known that.
I, because it's an image application you
drop images on and they get drawn,
I called it DropDraw.
That's the kind of
unimaginative person I am.
I mentioned the CMYK rendering because
this we have had substantial complaints
about in previous feedback forums.
I've turned off this flag,
used color sync matching to
pretend that we're back in Jaguar.
And this is what you get.
This is a CMYK TIFF file.
It's a picture of a palm tree.
And this is recognizably a palm tree.
But if you were a photographer,
you probably wouldn't be very
happy with that if that was
the photograph you'd taken.
This is what it looks like
if you're using the color
sync CMYK to RGB conversion.
And it looks a whole lot better.
You can see more depth
of detail in the shadows,
and the water looks less radioactive.
So this is now what you'll
get by default out of,
if you're just drawing using QuickTime,
and that's kind of nice.
But because you're drawing
using graphics importers,
there's all these other
features that we give you,
like we give you the ability to crop,
and that still works.
This is a cropping using source
extraction in source space.
You can apply a rotation matrix.
Let's do that.
Let's rotate the image.
We can clip.
We can give it a clip region,
and there's a fairly
complicated clip region.
We can do them all,
which is the obvious thing to do.
There we go.
Here we go.
So CMYK images look a lot better,
and you can still do all of the
things that you used to be able
to do with graphics importers.
We've introduced this feature in
as orthogonal a way as we can.
The difference between unmatched
and matched images is a bit more
subtle when you come to RGB images.
And there,
we can be forgiven for thinking
that there wasn't much of a deal.
If you look at this image,
this is a picture that
Ken Breskin took on holiday.
He says that he was on safari.
It's a bit hard to tell
whether he was in a zoo,
but we'll believe him.
Here's a picture of some wild beast.
It looks great, you know?
If I got a bug report saying,
"Look how bad you made my image
draw," I wouldn't believe that,
until maybe I saw what it looked like
side by side with the matched image.
And, you know, if you saw this image,
if you were there in person
and saw the animal and you
know that it looked browner,
then you'd be unhappy
if it wasn't that brown.
In fact, I think this -- I think
it even looks hairier.
Here's another example.
This one's pretty good.
Here's a picture of a lion.
and here's the same line
with color sync matching,
and that looks a whole lot sexier.
A much more romantic picture of a line.
The photographer's side of this is,
look how bad these things look.
This is terrible.
The programmer who isn't a
photographer doesn't know what
they're complaining about.
But in fact,
it's not necessarily a professional
who's really going to care about this.
I think anyone who's really getting
into photography wants their
images to look like they were.
Otherwise, you feel your memory of the
event was a little bit defaced.
But the problem is,
if you only see one of these,
how do you know whether
you did the right thing?
So, going back to slides,
we've got this problem.
How do you know whether
it's right or wrong?
Could you pick?
If you only saw one of these,
could you pick the right one?
I'm not sure that I could.
So there's a bit of a
problem for developers,
and
The ColorSync team has come
up with a good solution.
They've created some files
with special profiles.
It turns out that people have discovered
that you can use ColorSync matching,
because it does all of this
color space conversion,
you can use that for doing
explicit image adjustment.
You can say,
make this a bit bluer or greener,
make the sky blue,
that kind of adjustment,
and people use it for doing kinds
of color correction on purpose,
not just to make things look the same.
And they've created some image
files that have embedded profiles
that do a whole lot of changing.
In fact, they switch the colors red,
green, and blue around.
They all switch them around,
and then they make one of them vanish.
So, the image at the top is what it looks
like if you don't do any color matching.
and I don't know if you can read it.
It says the embedded test profile is
not used and is not double matched.
But the second one where the
text has gone green is if you do
the correct compensation using
color sync or something else.
and it has switched the colors
around and the first word,
not, has vanished because of
this special profile.
And so it says the embedded test
profile is used and not double matched.
And should the compensation
of the transformation between
these profiles be applied again,
then you'll find the image at the bottom,
which has turned red,
and the word not has vanished,
and now it says it is double matched.
But this is all coming
from the same image file.
So to work out whether you're doing
the right thing or the wrong file,
you can just drag this
into your application.
So let's have a look at this.
These image files are also available
if you go to connect.apple.com.
There's these images with trick profiles.
We've got a bunch of
different image formats here,
and I can go into my little application.
So there's one which always
looks blue because it doesn't
actually have a profile.
It's there as a baseline.
It's there if you want to create
other image formats by taking the
profile out of one of the other.
So here's a GIF,
and here's the test text.
The embedded test profile is not used,
and let's make it be used.
Look, it's used.
Woo-hoo!
So we've got a bunch of images here.
I'll turn off that one,
just show you that they all work.
So this is in my application,
which since you haven't
downloaded the sources to,
you don't know whether I'm
actually doing anything very fancy.
But I can show you in a few
other applications that this
is really a widespread effect,
and we can make sure that things
are doing the right thing.
The finder's preview here,
you can see that the finder is
displaying these with matching.
The finder does not call a
color sync to do this stuff.
Here's another application that...
doesn't call ColorSync,
as far as I can tell.
Rich told me it didn't yesterday morning,
and I believe him.
BBEdit actually lets you
open images and movies,
I think.
Well.
There's an option in the
preferences to do this.
Let me try this other copy,
see if this one works.
Oh, here we are.
Okay.
So here's an image in BBEdit.
In the preferences here,
there's a choice whether you
want to display images using
QuickTime and even open movies.
Kind of interesting for a text editor,
but I've heard it doesn't suck.
If your application's like BBEdit and
it's just calling a graphics importer,
so this is already working for you.
Another Apple application,
but not one that...
You think of as an imaging
application is iTunes.
iTunes actually does
call graphics importers.
I have it on good authority.
They use graphics importers
to draw the album artwork.
So, I can just drag my image file in.
playing in the background.
It's a really very 80s song.
get your G5 upgrade today.
Okay, what if your application already
does color sync matching?
Well, some of you are saying, oh my god,
my application already does this.
Has he broken it?
And some of you are probably saying,
what's the problem?
Well, you don't apply that color
sync image adjustment twice.
That would be a bad idea,
because then you'd overcompensate,
and the photographers
would be unhappy again.
So it's difficult to...
You might be concerned if you
already have an application.
The good news is that
we did think of this.
And we do maintain binary compatibility
with applications that are already
calling graphics supporters and
doing the matching themselves,
as we showed before.
The way we do this is
a little bit tricky.
The graphics importer now lies.
Well,
it tells you the profile that it's going
to match to when you ask it what the
profile embedded in the image file is.
So now, if it's going to draw the
image matched to generic RGB,
it'll tell you when you ask, say,
what's the color sync
profile of this image?
It'll tell you, oh, it's generic RGB.
And that means that if you then
match again to generic RGB,
color sync will say, that's a no-op.
These are the same profile.
And so the image will still
only have been matched once.
It's worth, if you have an application
that does this,
it's worth checking
that this is the case.
Because if you grab that profile ahead
of time and store it somewhere else,
or if you go through some other
path that isn't quite this simple,
then it's possible that there might be a
situation in which you did match twice,
you did get an erroneous double match.
But you can easily detect that
case and work out how to fix
it by using those image files,
which as I said,
are up on the ADC Connect side.
On the other hand,
if you just want to tell us,
don't do color matching,
I'll do it instead.
We have an API to do that.
That's what we were using to turn off
things and pretend we were on Jaguar.
It's just setting a flag
on the graphics importer,
and since it's just a flag,
it's safe to do that all the
way back to QuickTime 4.0,
in fact.
In the panthecide that you have received,
automatic color management only
happens when you draw images.
It doesn't happen in the utility APIs for
getting images as pic handles or picture
files or saving them as QuickTime images.
We also have not yet done anything
to modify importing still images or
sequences of still images as movies.
If you're a graphics-imported developer,
you need to opt in to get this feature,
because you need to enable the code that
and the other two are going to be
talking about the new version of the QCF.
If you want to talk to me about it,
I'll be downstairs in Sacramento,
which is not up 80.
I'll be in Sacramento tomorrow morning,
and so will other people on the ICM team.
So, we are making color management
the default because we think that
it's a better user experience,
not just for pro customers,
but for all of them.
We're also making a strong effort
to preserve binary compatibility
because we think that's also a
pretty important user experience.
So, one more thing from me.
I want to tell you about a couple
of new APIs in QuickTime to
help integrate with Quartz 2D.
So we have a new API that's in
the Panther seed to create a
CG image from an image file.
And this is great if you then want
to draw that into a CG context.
This was requested by a bunch of people.
If you don't know what a CG context is,
I encourage you to learn.
Go to some Quartz sessions.
Pick up a book.
One tip, though, Quartz uses a floating
point coordinate space.
So if you want to center
that image somewhere,
you should be careful to round
down the coordinates when you're
dividing some number by two.
Or else, you might draw that image
at a half pixel offset,
and then you get a blurry image.
So round is your friend.
Floor is your friend.
Floor is the function.
We've also introduced an
API to create a new image.
allow you to provide a CG image as the
input to a graphics export operation.
And so using this,
you can take the smooth images that
you've rendered by Quartz and write
them out as Mac Paint files if you like.
So that's it for me.
I will have these little reminder cards.
If you're interested in writing
applications that take advantage
of the multi-threaded abilities,
please come and see me,
and I'll give you one of these cards.
And then you'll remember that you
have to send some email to us.
So let's switch to a totally
different topic right now.
From all this Threads Safety, ColorSync,
and cross-2D support in
QuickTime for Panther,
and let me talk about
Audio/Video Startup Sync.
Before I do that,
let's take a look at the current
QuickTime AVSync model today.
Today we have moving times,
which is driven by time bases.
And those time bases
are driven by clocks.
Basically,
time bases have a definition of rate.
They can stop the time,
they can move the time
forward or backward,
whether the clock provide
real-time clock information,
which means that their
time is always moving.
So these clocks can be provided
by external hardware device today,
such as audio or video.
If your movie is not attached
to any of these devices,
QuickTime internally
will use the CPU clock.
But the fact that QuickTime is
capable of using this external
clock to drive the time base of the
movie let us play audio and video
in sync over a long period of time.
The issue we have today is that this
model makes the assumption that the rate
of a time base can change right away.
and by making this assumption,
what kind of trouble can we run into?
Well,
if you take the example of video clock,
which is draw there,
assuming this video clock is currently
driving the time base of your movie,
when your application asks
QuickTime to start this movie,
basically internally,
we're gonna turn around and change
the rate of this time base and assume
it's going to change right now.
But actually, this external device clock,
we would like to see the
rate changing not right now,
but on the edge of the video scene,
because it will be totally
incapable of outputting the
first sample before this edge.
Well, if you look at this drawing,
the second arrow is pointing at when the
movie time has already started changing.
So the audio track has already seen
a time moving since the second arrow,
when the video one will be totally
not possible for it to display
any sample before the third arrow.
So by making this assumption
that the rates can change,
we introduce a gap, a tiny gap,
between audio and video devices today.
And we're not talking about
seconds or minutes in this gap.
This is about a couple
of milliseconds today.
Okay.
But.
When you are in the high-end
audio and video space,
they really don't care about
what the scale of your gap is.
They don't want to see any gap at all.
So what do we need to do to fix
this issue and get rid of this gap?
Well, QuickTime needs to be able to
understand this clock constraint,
and as soon as we
understand this constraint,
we'll be able to provide some headroom
before the rate of the movie changes.
So how do we make that happen in Panther?
Well, we've introduced two new APIs on
the clock component side.
The first one is clock
getTimeForRateChange.
And basically,
this API-- we used to ask the clock,
what time is it, and say, well,
we'll change the time now.
What we're going to do,
we're going to say, well,
we are about to change the rate
from this value to this new one.
Tell us what's the best
time to change this value.
The other API on the clock
component side as well is clock
get rate change constraint,
which basically let QuickTime knows that
the clock does have such a constraint.
There is also in Panzer this
new time-based API called
GetTimeRateChangeStatus.
So this one,
you'll be able to call it after
you change the rate of the movie,
and you will be able to tell when
the time will really start moving.
There is also one new bit which
has been added to an existing
API called GetTimeBasedStatus.
It's called time-based rate changing,
basically telling you that you are
within this gap I was just talking about.
So what does that mean
for your application?
Well,
if you use high-level movie toolbox API,
you probably don't care about it,
all that you really need to be aware
of that the time-based rate can be
not zero but the time is not moving.
and actually the slide is talking
about clock and I'm definitely
out of sync with my slide.
This should be really time-based.
If you use low-level time-based
API directly outside of a movie context,
you might have more work to do.
You probably need to check for this
new flag returned by the get time-based
status because it could generate some
new behavior you've never seen before.
So the last API added in Panther is
a movie toolbox API called
GetMovieRateChangeConstraints.
So before you start a movie,
you can query the minimum and maximum
delay that you will see when you're
about to change the rate of your movie.
So let's switch to the demo machine to
show you what this stuff is all about.
So of course,
I'm trying to demo something which is
showing a millisecond delay
when you start a movie.
So that's not really something easy.
So in order to have you
re-understand what's going on,
I modified the built-in
audio clock on this machine,
just because I can,
and I advertised a constraint
of two seconds rather than
a realistic constraint,
which is about a couple of
milliseconds in real hardware devices.
So you will be able to see
what I'm talking about when
the movie rate is changing.
The other thing I have
added to this standard
QuickTime player is a custom panel,
which is showing you a couple of things.
The first one is the
current rate of the movie,
and the two other parameters
basically are using the new
APIs I was talking about.
The first one is asking the
movie to box with the constraint
when you're about to start,
and this is the two seconds
I was talking about,
building to this fake audio device clock,
and the other one will basically
monitor the time changing after
I've changed the rate of the movie.
So the player has not
been modified at all.
All that has been modified in this demo
is the clock component which is used.
And because this movie contains
both an audio and a video track,
by default,
QuickTime will pick up the audio
clock to take the time of this movie.
So when I'm about to play this movie,
you will see that the movie controller
believes that the rate has changed.
Well, we're gonna see that the rate
actually will change in the future.
So if I do that, nothing is happening,
and you see the slider going down,
and the movie restarting.
- Thanks for coming to Apple today,
Mary and Vivian.
Do either of you work
with computers at all?
Let me do that again so you
can understand what's going on.
Everybody believe the movie has started,
and the clock is running
the time base of the movie.
So even if the constraint is
applied on the audio track,
actually the video is going to wait
patiently for this time to start playing.
Do you know that Apple makes
QuickTime for Windows now?
Yeah, IBM.
So to show you that it's really
coming from the audio clock,
what I can do,
I can extract the video track
from this original movie.
And if I just show you the panel,
the everything panel again,
we'll see that there is no more
constraint because QuickTime is not
using the built-in audio clock anymore.
And if I just play this movie,
it does behave like any movie today,
which means that the video
can start right away.
and there is nothing happening there,
the rate changed instantaneously.
If I extract just the,
Audio Track of the original movie.
Then, one more time,
because QuickTime is using
the built-in audio plug,
is going to wait before
the start happens.
Are you now or have you
ever used video for Windows?
I've just experimented.
I have-- Well, that's about all the time
we have left for now.
And that's all the time I have
as well to talk about the
service of the second pencil.
Thank you.
So Guillermo, Guillermo is not here.
Guillermo is here and is coming
up to wrap up the session.
So now for the ending of the session,
we're going to talk about what is
still available for you as sessions.
And we have, for tomorrow,
we have QuickTime Streaming
Server Programming.
And we have QuickTime Alternative
Programming Environments on Friday.
But the thing that I want to highlight
is the feedback forum tomorrow.
It's at 3.30, if I remember correctly.
And the important thing here is that
it is scheduled to be in High Ashbury.
And we have moved it to Marina because
we think that we need more room
for all the QuickTime people
who are at the conference.
So High Ashbury was going
to be just too small for,
we expect you all to be there.
And this is enough to
fill High Ashbury already.
So please take note of that.
We will be modifying
all the displays around.
the conference.
[Transcript missing]
That's my contact information.
If Sam happens to run out of his cards,
you can write to me and I'll make sure
that he gets the information also.
More information.
This is all the...
Sam Poco,
that we have been talking about here,
is already available for you
to download from the ADC site.
There is also new QuickTime documentation
available that you can go and download.
We have, every time we are trying to
catch up with the new APIs and
make that available to you.
So, you, as attendees of the conference,
can go today and download it.
We will be making it available
to all the developers as
Panther goes out to more people.
At this moment, only you have it.
For documentation, you can go and get the
new stuff right now.
More information on ThreadTester,
DropDraw, those are available from
the download site already.
And the QuickTime Lab,
we have mentioned this many
times for API developers.
This is an important opportunity
for you to talk directly with the
QuickTime engineering team and
have any questions or consultation
that you want to make answered.
We still have the rest of this afternoon
and tomorrow and Friday for you.